[Music]
alright sleepyheads
time to rise and shine here's how to
wake up at 4:30 a.m. without feeling
tired just ten simple steps you know
what they say the early bird catches the
worm but who wants to eat a worm yeah
and besides why is this proverbial worm
only accessible in the morning
that is why does this world seem to be
designed exclusively for those who are
able to get up fresh as a daisy in the
early hours whether you're still in
school or you'll work in an office
you're expected to not only wake up in
the morning but also be productive and
functional while the Sun is still high
in the sky so where does that leave the
night house should they try to conform
or continue blissfully marching to the
beat of their own late-night drum well I
have to tell you unfortunately for those
who burn the midnight oil it looks like
you're better off switching to a morning
routine I mean the majority of the most
successful people out there are known to
get up way before the crack of dawn how
do they manage it well they have a few
secrets and we're about to share them
with you but before you set your alarm
to 4:30 a.m. you'll need another alarm
to stay updated on the bright side of
life all you have to do is be subscribed
to our channel and make sure you've rung
that little bell to enable post
notifications there now you won't miss
any of the new informative videos we put
out daily all right so you'll want to
start waking up early the first thing
you need to do is find out how much
sleep you really need adults are advised
to get from 5 to 9 hours of sleep a
night but 5 to 9 leaves a lot of wiggle
room that's why your job is to figure
out exactly where you stand on that
scale how much sleep a person's body
needs to function properly the following
day is a totally individual thing
you'll need to experiment for a while to
find out your perfect amount of sleep
and yes it is possible to sleep too much
and it's no better than sleeping too
little too much sleep can make you feel
sluggish and drowsy throughout the whole
day once you've established how many
hours of sleep your body needs you then
want to shift your sleep schedule back
that is go to bed earlier to wake up
earlier so if you're aiming to get up at
4:30 or 5:00 a.m. you should be in bed
at 9 p.m. or 12 midnight at the latest
that's going off the 5 to 9 hours a roll
we talked about earlier again whether
you go to bed at 9:00 10:00 or 11:00
p.m. depends on your body's needs that
being said here are 10 simple steps to
make that transition easier
excuse me number 10 don't change your
sleeping pattern all at once give your
body time to adjust get up just 15
minutes earlier each day until you reach
your goal
naturally the earlier you get up the
earlier you'll start feeling ready for
bed take baby steps and you'll get there
in due time number 9 make your
environment suitable for a good night's
rest block out all the light in the room
that means your curtains shouldn't let
in any light from the street also switch
off all electronic devices in the room
avoid using any gadgets before bed since
they over stimulate your brain in order
to wind down and relax listen to some
light music take a warm bath or read a
book and finally make sure your room
isn't too hot the most comfortable
temperature in which to get restful
sleep is no higher than 72 degrees
Fahrenheit
eight there are devices out there to
help you out you could try a white noise
machine these things effectively block
out background noises like sirens
traffic loud neighbors or your snoring
dog they do it by creating a special
sound that helps you fall and stay
asleep if you're having trouble getting
out of bed try a light alarm clock it's
unique in that it first gradually turns
on the light and only a bit later makes
a sound unlike traditional alarm clocks
you're not jerked out of sleep by a
sudden buzzing sound plus you'll be less
tempted to snooze
speaking of which number seven do not
hit the snooze button this is the worst
thing you can do to sabotage an easy
wake up luckily for us snoozers there
are special apps specifically designed
to combat this problem spin cycle for
instance makes you get out of bed and
literally spin in circles if you don't
do it your alarm will never switch off
sleep cycle alarm clock is another
useful app it monitors your sleep and
wakes you up painlessly during the
lightest stage or you can always count
on the classics after you set your alarm
in the evening put your phone or alarm
clock somewhere out of reach you can put
it on the other side of the room or get
creative and put it in some
hard-to-reach spot like under your
dresser this way you'll be forced to get
up and go turn it off this should help
you fight the urge to return to your
cozy bed number six recruit allies now
if you still have problems showing your
alarm clock who is boss try involving
someone who can help you wake up it can
be your partner mom granny or maybe just
a roommate
the main problem here is that your ally
needs to be a morning person themselves
if they are they'll be of great help
they can shake your shoulder until you
drag yourself out of bed or even call
you until you finally answer your phone
number five
trick your body into getting up early if
your body just won't get out of bed for
nothing force it drink a full glass of
water each evening before bed when your
alarm clock starts to ring your
awakening bladder will immediately
inform you of its discomfort and there
you go you're out of bed and heading to
the bathroom might as well jump in the
shower while you're there
number four give yourself a reason to
get up sometimes you just need some
external motivation one way to do that
is to schedule some important thing like
a job interview or a dentist appointment
for an early morning this will make you
wake up on time you can also invent some
reward for yourself for getting out of
bed as you're lying there getting ready
to hit that snooze button remind
yourself that a steaming cup of coffee a
warm shower or a delicious breakfast is
right around the corner hey whatever can
motivate you to get up think about it
finally try making a checklist of things
you need to do right after you wake up
for example you got to make the bed take
a shower do some morning exercises
gather your school or work things feed
your pet and on and on this is a
surprisingly great tactic because all
you want to do is tick off all those
tiny boxes it's kind of like a game or
important quest you need to fulfill
number three avoid naps during the day
if after an especially strenuous day you
feel like you're about to fall over if
you don't close your eyes for just a
minute then go ahead and have a short
snooze but limit your naps to under 15
minutes if you indulge in a prolonged
nap you won't be able to fall asleep in
the evening
Plus naps can easily disrupt your whole
sleeping schedule undoing all the hard
work you've put in to getting it back on
track number to steer clear of
stimulants after 3:00 p.m. that means
no soda coffee or energy drinks in the
late afternoon there's just one more
thing that can keep you awake at night
if you want to perk up do some
stretching or go for a short walk
number one remember that your bed is
only for sleep you shouldn't work or
watch TV in bed if you use your bed for
things other than sleep your brain
starts to associate it with wakefulness
making it much harder to fall asleep in
it when you want to so there you go are
you a morning bird or a night owl do you
have your own secrets to waking up early
share your tricks in the comments below
if you're gonna try at least one of the
tips mentioned in today's video hit that
like button always stay fresh on the
bright side of life